---
layout: posts
title: Codecamp 2025 summary
image: /assets/posts/2025/01/26/codecamp-2025/specs.jpg
date: 2025-01-26 06:00:00 +0300
categories: appdev
tags: appdev azure openai unity
---

This post continues the series of posting summary from our
Codecamp. See my post from [last year]({% post_url 2024/01/2024-01-14-codecamp-2024 %})
to better understand the context.

Another year, another **intensive 50+ hour** coding session from Thursday to Sunday.
Fun, learning, failing, and **finding completely new innovative ideas** on the fly. That's what Codecamp is all about.

This year we continued expanding Jarmo's existing [Unity](https://unity.com) 
functionality and dynamic crafting of the world using voice commands.

Jarmo posted to LinkedIn when we 
[started](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7288182256764919808/)
the Codecamp.

You can find **summary video** on
[Jarmo's LinkedIn post](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/jarmo-h%C3%A4m%C3%A4l%C3%A4inen-821337a_unity-unity3d-activity-7289245348051505152-Z92r).

---

Here's my hand-drawn specs and actual model that got created side by side: 

{% include imageEmbed.html link="/assets/posts/2025/01/26/codecamp-2025/specs.jpg" %}

Together with Jarmo, we measured the physical world and then I drew the specs on paper. 
Then I started walking around our virtual world and used voice commands to generate items
such as walls, doors, and windows.
To create a wall next to existing wall, I could just tap the wall and say something like this:

{% include imageEmbed.html link="/assets/posts/2025/01/26/codecamp-2025/dialog1.jpg" %}

```
wall 300 to east
```

The above command would create a wall with length of 300 centimeters towards the east of the wall I tapped.
To add a door to the wall, I could say:

{% include imageEmbed.html link="/assets/posts/2025/01/26/codecamp-2025/dialog2.jpg" %}

```
door 100
```

The above command would create a door with of 100 centimeters to the location I just tapped.

Here is a picture of one room:

{% include imageEmbed.html link="/assets/posts/2025/01/26/codecamp-2025/kitchen.jpg" %}

Late in the Saturday evening, Jarmo came up with an idea to store these voice commands so that we can later
re-play them to generate the same world again. Before this we just _normal way of storing the world_.
Now creating the world is readable and understandable by just reading the commands.
If you want to edit that definition, you can just edit the commands 
(e.g., `door 100` to `door 80`) and re-run them.

---

As always, we had a lot of fun at our Codecamp.

I hope you enjoyed reading about our experience!
